# Gradle Task: Synchronize
The klutter module is the single source of truth of the project. Dependency versions, repositories, etc.
are all configured in the klutter module using yaml files.  The synchronize task takes all these yaml
files in the klutter directory, merges them and creates 2 files:
- klutter.gradle.kts
- klutter.properties

These files are created in the klutter/.klutter directory. Any existing klutter.gradle.kts or  
klutter.properties file in this directory will be overwritten. Do <b>not</b> manually edit these files!  
Next the plugin will find all modules configured by the Klutter Plugin. A .klutter directory
with klutter.gradle.kts and klutter.properties will be created in each module.

More info: [Configuration management in Klutter](docs/doc_configuration_management.md)

## Setup modules
Example of a modules block:

```kotlin
    modules {
        module("kmp")
        module("kmp/common")
        module("android")
        module("android/app")
        module("klutter")
    }
```

By default each module will be resolved by Gradle rootProject directory e.g. if
the klutter plugin is configured in build.gradle.kts file in directory
"C:/Users/Anakin/MyProject/fancyapp/klutter" then module("kmp")
will be resolved to the absolute path "C:/Users/Anakin/MyProject/fancyapp/kmp".

This behavior can be overwritten for either the entire modules block or separately
per module. Set the root of the project by using the root function. This will result
in an absolute path e.g. module("kmp") will be resolved to the absolute path "foo/bar/kmp".

```kotlin
    modules {
        root("foo/bar")
        module("kmp")
    }
```

Specifying absolute paths is however most of the times not the way to go. It can cause
issues when absolute paths are checked into version control. What works on your machine
won't work on someone elses if the repository is checked out in a different directory.
Therefore it is recommended to use a relative path by setting the 'absolute' parameter
to 'false'.

```kotlin
    modules {
        root("../../foo/bar", absolute = false)
        module("kmp")
    }
```

If the klutter plugin is configured in build.gradle.kts file in directory
"C:/Users/Anakin/MyProject/fancyapp/klutter" then setting the root this way will
resolve module("kmp") to the absolute path "C:/Users/Anakin/foo/bar/kmp".


## Add configuration
The klutter module is the single source of truth of the project.   Dependency versions, repositories, etc. are all configured in the klutter module using yaml files. Why

This can be setup by adding and editting klutter.yaml files. There are 3 types of yaml files:
- klutter.yaml
- klutter-local.yaml
- klutter-secrets.yaml

##### klutter.yaml
Mandatory file which contains the global project setup, dependency versions etc.

##### klutter-local.yaml
Optional (but recommended) file to store user-dependent configuration. For example
the (absolute) location of SDK's. Should not be saved in version controle.

##### klutter-secrets.yaml
Optional (but recommended) file to store sensitive information. For example credentials, keystore (location), etc.


## Use configuration
Because the synchronize task adds the generated configuration files to each module,
using it is as easy as applying the klutter.gradle.kts file:

```kotlin
apply(from = ".klutter/klutter.gradle.kts")
```

An idiomatic Kotlin way of applying and using the generated klutter.gradle.kts file is
by using the .also function:

```kotlin
buildscript {
    apply(from = ".klutter/klutter.gradle.kts").also {
        repositories {
            maven {
                url = uri(project.extra["privateRepoUrl"] as String)
                credentials {
                    username = project.extra["privateRepoUsername"] as String
                    password = project.extra["privateRepoPassword"] as String
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

When it's not possible to apply the klutter.gradle.kts file then the klutter.properties
file can be read directly. The synchronization task will keep both files in sync so they
will always contain the same properties. As an example the gradle files in the android
directory are generated by Klutter and use the klutter.properties file instead of the klutter.gradle.kts
file like so:

```groovy

def kProps = new Properties()
   new File(project.projectDir, ".klutter/klutter.properties")
           .getCanonicalFile()
           .withReader('UTF-8') { reader -> kProps.load(reader)}

    repositories {
        maven {
            url = uri(kProps.getProperty('private.repo.url'))
            credentials {
                username = kProps.getProperty('private.repo.username')
                password = kProps.getProperty('private.repo.password')
            }
        }
    }

```